---
layout: post
title: "Coppices"
date: 2020-10-19
length: "short"
---

What is the internet for but metabolizing the production of others and recirculating it under your own banner?

I try to recirculate the materials from <span class="sc">[LOW←TECH MAGAZINE](https://solar.lowtechmagazine.com/power.html)</span> as much as possible – beginning with their _brutalist-not-for-brutalism's-sake_ web design: they've transitioned (partially) to a very lightweight site that makes as few calls as possible, so that they can operate it all on a solar panel and car battery. (Maybe not a car battery.) To do so, they've embraced the constraint that a website doesn't always need to be online. It can close up shop and rest – _and maybe let us rest too?_

But I'm not writing now about Low←Tech's brilliant reorientation, I'm writing "about" their most recent article, on making "biomass energy sustainable again" through the practice of [coppicing](https://solar.lowtechmagazine.com/2020/09/how-to-make-biomass-energy-sustainable-again.html) – in which you cut trees so they will grow again. Rather than growing plantations of trees for later clear-cutting, for centuries people grew fields of trees that they would cut back every two to four years. After the initial cut, the tree grows back many shoots, which are harvested at a much smaller dimension than we're used to today.

To understand the practice it's better for all parties if you just follow the link and read Kris De Decker's own words and research. What I want to highlight isthe article's connection to James Scott's opening account in _Seeing Like a State_. Scott introduces his concepts of _simplification_ and the _legibility project_ by the way of German forestry practices in the 18th century. 

<!-- don't post yet, you're stepping aside to work on 415 development proposal but you still need to flesh out the bit on scott and talk about how this article interfaces with it; second use the opportunity to talk about technocracy -->
